Update: oklch() (#33048)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/color_value/oklch/index.md

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`oklch()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the Oklab {{glossary("color space")}}. `oklch()` is the cylindrical form of {{CSSXref("color_value/oklab", "oklab()")}}, using the same `L` axis, but with polar Chroma (`C`) and Hue (`h`) coordinates.

Author: the color space is OKlab. OKlch is the color function. 

I finally figured it out when i was writing the "color values" guide. See https://pr33071.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_colors/Color_values#lab_and_oklab. The color spaces we generally will write about are `srgb`, `CIE L*a*b`, and `oklch`. 

- lch() and lab() are in "CIE Lab."
- oklch() and oklab() are in "oklch"

Unless I am wrong again.

{{CSSRef}}

The **`oklch()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the Oklch {{glossary("color space")}}.

> OKlch is the cylindrical form of {{CSSXref("color_value/oklab", "OKlab")}}. It uses the same `L` axis as the {{cssxref("color_value/oklab","oklab()")}} color function of the [CIELab color space](/en-US/docs/Glossary/Color_space#cielab_color_spaces), but uses polar coordinates `C` (Chroma) and `H` (Hue).

Author: rewrote the whole thing to:

> The **`oklch()`** functional notation expresses a given color in the Oklab {{glossary("color space")}}. `oklch()` is the cylindrical form of {{CSSXref("color_value/oklab", "OKlab()")}}, using the same `L` axis, and polar Chroma (`C`) and Hue (`h`) coordinates.

The parameters are as follows:

- `L`

>   - : A {{CSSXref("&lt;number&gt;")}} between `0` and `1`, a {{CSSXref("&lt;percentage&gt;")}} between `0%` and `100%`, or the keyword `none` (equivalent to `0%` in this case). This value specifies the color's perceived lightness, or "brightness". In this case, the number `0` corresponds to `0%` (black) and the number `1` corresponds to `100%` (white).

Author: moved the lightness /brightness sentence to be last in the paragraph

  background-color: oklch(10% 0.4 20);
}
[data-color="red"] {
  background-color: oklch(50% 0.4 20);
}
[data-color="red-light"] {
  background-color: oklch(90% 0.4 20);
}

[data-color="green-dark"] {
  background-color: oklch(10% 0.4 130);
}
[data-color="green"] {
  background-color: oklch(50% 0.4 130);
}
[data-color="green-light"] {
  background-color: oklch(90% 0.4 130);
}
```

#### Result

{{EmbedLiveSample("Adjusting the brightness of a color", "", "200")}}

### Adjusting color intensity via chroma

The following example shows the effect of varying the `C` (chroma) value of the `oklch()` functional notation, with colors decreasing in intensity as the `C` value decreases from fully saturated to almost grey.

#### HTML

```html
<div data-color="blue"></div>
<div data-color="blue-chroma1"></div>
<div data-color="blue-chroma2"></div>
<div data-color="blue-chroma3"></div>

<div data-color="red"></div>
<div data-color="red-chroma1"></div>
<div data-color="red-chroma2"></div>
<div data-color="red-chroma3"></div>

<div data-color="green"></div>
<div data-color="green-chroma1"></div>
<div data-color="green-chroma2"></div>
<div data-color="green-chroma3"></div>
```

#### CSS

> With the initial starting colors blue, red, and green, we declare progressively smaller values for chroma on them: starting from full color saturation at the highest value of `150` (equivalent to `100%`) down to `3` (equivalent to `2%`), which is almost grey for all the colors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the initial starting colors blue, red, and green, we declare progressively smaller values for chroma on them: starting from full color saturation at the highest value of `0.4` (equivalent to `100%`) down to `0.01` (equivalent to `2%`), which is almost grey for all the colors.
```

Author: good catch!
